.TH KMC_READ 8 "Sept 01, 1999" "kmc_utils" "Version 0.3.2" 
.SH NAME
kmc_read \- read settings and images from Kodak Motion Corder high speed digital cameras
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "kmc_read" [ \fIoptions\fP...  ] [ \fIdevice\fP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
kmc_read is part of the kmc_utils package for controlling and reading 
information and images from Kodak Motion Corder(KMC) high speed 
digital cameras.
This version is designed to run on Linux, although future versions may 
support other Unix variants.  
.PP
kmc_read is the command line interface to retrieving information from 
KMCs through the SCSI interface.  This includes retrieving information
about the camera and its current settings, as well as retrieving images 
stored in a KMC's memory.  It does not allow remote control of a KMC,
which is done through a serial interface using kmc_control.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I \-h 
Show usage (help) information
.TP
.I \-v 
Show version number
.TP
.I \-l 
List generic SCSI devices on system
.TP
.I \-L 
List vendor and product of generic SCSI devices on system
.TP
.I \-k 
List generic SCSI devices which are Kodak Motion Corders 
.TP
.I \-q 
Short query of device information for \fIdevice\fP
.TP
.I \-Q 
Long query of device information for \fIdevice\fP
.TP
.I \-f \fIframe\fP 
Read frame \fIframe\fP from \fIdevice\fP 
.TP
.I \-s \fIstartframe\fP 
Read multiple frames, starting at frame \fIstartframe\fP from \fIdevice\fP 
.TP
.I \-e \fIendframe\fP 
Read multiple frames, ending at frame \fIendframe\fP from \fIdevice\fP 
.TP
.I \-n \fInframes\fP 
Read a total of \fInframes\fP from \fIdevice\fP
.TP
.I \-r 
Renumber frames when saving such that 0 is first saved frame
.TP
.I \-c 
Reorder frames before saving in chronological order
.TP
.I \-T 
True CCD coloring (no interpolation)
.TP
.I \-t 
Save/output images in tiff format (Not yet supported) 

(Default is pgm for monochrome camera, ppm for color)
.TP
.I \-p 
Save/output images in ppm format 

(Default is pgm for monochrome camera, ppm for color)
.TP
.I \-g 
Save/output images in pgm format 

(Default is pgm for monochrome camera, ppm for color)
.TP
.I \-i \fIfilename\fP 
Write long query of \fIdevice\fP to \fIfilename\fP
.TP
.I \-o \fIfilename\fP 
Save image(images) to \fIfilename\fP(\fIfilename####\fP)

(Default is to send images to STDOUT.)

.SH EXAMPLES 
To list all generic SCSI devices on the system with vendor and 
product information, use:

.nf
	kmc_read -L
.fi

This command is typically necessary to determine which generic SCSI device 
has been assigned to the KMC.
.PP
To show settings of a KMC (frame size, frame rate, shutter speed,
total number of frames in memory, trigger mode, etc.), use:

.nf
	kmc_read -Q /dev/sga 
.fi

The generic scsi device, "/dev/sga" here, must match that returned by 
"kmc_read -L" above.

To read frame 25 from a monochrome KMC attached to device /dev/sga
and write the image in pgm format to a file called "image.pgm", use:

.nf
	kmc_read -f 25 -o image.pgm /dev/sga
.fi

To read frame 25 from a KMC attached to device /dev/sga and display the
image using the display utility (requires ImageMagick), use:

.nf
	kmc_read -f 25 /dev/sga | display
.fi

To read frames 100 through 1570 from a KMC attached to device /dev/sga
and save them to files named "image0100.pgm", ..., "image1570.pgm", use:

.nf
	kmc_read -s 100 -e 1570 -o image /dev/sga 
.fi

.SH CAMERA FRAME NUMBERING
The default frame numbering is "Camera Frame Numbering".  Frame numbering
is dependent upon whether the camera trigger is set to "Start", "Center", 
or "Stop".  In all cases, the trigger frame is frame "0".   
.SS Start Triggering
Start triggering indicates that the camera begins acquiring 
frames when the trigger is given and continues acquiring until the
memory is full.  The first frame (the trigger frame) is numbered 0, 
the second frame is 1, ..., the last frame is (N-1).

.nf
------------------------------------------------------------
| \fI0\fP | 1 |                  ...                     | (N-1) |
------------------------------------------------------------
.fi

.SS Center Triggering
The trigger frame is the middle-most frame in "Center Triggering".
The next frame is "1", ..., the last frame stored is (N/2)-1.  
Frame (N/2) is chronologically the first frame acquired, and frame 
(N-1) is the frame immediately preceeding the trigger frame.
.nf
------------------------------------------------------------
| (N/2) |    ...    | (N-1) | \fI0\fP | 1 |     ...    | (N/2)-1 |
------------------------------------------------------------
.fi

.SS End Triggering
In "End Trigger" mode, the chronological first frame is "1", the next
frame is "2", ..., the second to last frame is (N-1), and the last
frame is the trigger frame, indexed "0".
.nf
------------------------------------------------------------
| 1 | 2 |                  ...                 | (N-1) | \fI0\fP |
------------------------------------------------------------
.fi

.SH CHRONOLOGICAL FRAME NUMBERING
In certain circumstances, the precise frame at which the camera was 
triggered is not important.  In these circumstances, it may be more 
convenient to use "Chronological Frame Numbering".  Frames are specified 
in chronological order, "0" being the frame number of the first frame acquired
and (N-1) being the number of the last frame acquired, independent of the 
trigger mode of the camera.  When the frames are saved to files, the 
file names will
be indexed by the chronological frame number, unless the renumber flag \fI-r\fP
is used in which case the first frame saved is indexed as "0", the 
second as "1", etc.



.SH NOTE
A KMC must be in "Live" mode to properly transfer images on the SCSI 
bus.  Transfers done in "Playback" mode tend to be unreliable.     
 
.SH NOTE ABOUT COLOR KMC's
Color KMC's have 512x480 CCD elements, the same as with monochrome KMC's.
Each element has a single color(red, green, or blue).  The default format
for color images is an XxY ppm(eg. 512x480). The default mode for transfering
color images is to interpolate the missing pixels for each color space.  
(Note that currently the interpolation routine used is different from that
used by Kodak in their Windows software.)  Interpolation can be turn off with
the \fI-T\fP flag. 

 
.SH AUTHOR
Dan Mueth -\ d-mueth@uchicago.edu
